# Simon History
What is a Simon? It was the first Smartphone. This repository contains articles, documentation, and technical data for it. This collection is from the personal files of Frank Canova who lead the vision and architecture for Simon, and from other "Simoneers" who created this groundbreaking device.

The Simon was developed by a small team of dedicated engineers at IBM in the "Advanced Technology" department in Boca Raton, Florida. It was actually created in two phases:
* Technology demo for Comdex Novermber 1992. The development occured between 8/1992 to 11/1992 and was intended to show a vision of the future through a working device. Initially code named "Sweetspot", it was an extremely successful "demo" and generated lots of press. BellSouth also became very interested which helped this development continue and led to a commercial product. It was called a "Personal Communicator" during the technology demo since the term Smartphone was not yet known.
* Simon, the first commercial Smartphone was code named "Angler". It was announced by Jim Thorpe, BellSouth's vice president for marketing, at an event held in Orlando, Florida on November 2, 1993 and was generally available in 1994.

In many ways, Simon was ahead of its time. Based on AMPS (1G analog) cellular, it used an internal modem to dial-up remote computers to transfer data. It was also before the internet was well known, so the remote computers were generally running Lotus Notes to act as eMail servers. At a time when most computers had keyboards, floppy disks and ran on DOS, Simon had a touch screen, virtual disks in memory and apps that ran on a specially developed "Navigator" that replaced most of DOS. You could start apps like eMail, calculator, FAX (which was popular then), world clock, address book, calendar, games and more. The technology demo in 1992 also showed examples of weather, stocks, maps, sports, entertainment and news apps, but these were not in the final product. 

The LCD touch screen was 640x200 pixel CGA size. This made it taller than most cell phones at that time, and the older cell phone and battery technologies made it thicker. At an introductory price of $899, it was also more expensive. But Simon was ready for the future through a PCMCIA expansion slot. In 1992 it was envisioned that cameras, GPS, and many other types of add-ons would be possible with PCMCIA cards. In the commercial product the slot was used to add more memory or a pager which could deliver news and text messages.

IBM and BellSouth delivered on its visionary product despite its shortcomings. There were about 50,000 Simon smartphones sold in an era when there were none. By comparison the Apple-I, the first personal computer, sold about 200. There was some interest by Alcatel to sell a version of Simon in Europe, but it never materialized.

For a time, IBM continued development. A follow-on project to Simon was code named "Neon" which was much smaller with a 320x480 pixel LCD, a digital radio, and more advanced features like text that would change between portrait and landscape simply by tilting the phone, similar to today. However, IBM began to down-size all Boca Raton operations and move future development to Raleigh, NC under a new code name "Bobcat". Without the original Advanced Technology team the transition failed to make progress and IBM eventually decided to abandon follow-on projects and leave development to other companies.  There were many attempts by other companies to make a successful Smartphone and it would be over 13 years before Apple released the first iPhone.
